# Study on plant layout of jute yarn manufacturing laboratory

**Experiment No:** 01
**Date:** 09.07.23

## Introduction

The arrangement or configuration of various machines and facilities is called layout. If the arrangement is done in such a way that the production efficiency is maximum, then it's called plant layout.

Layout planning is crucial in any manufacturing industry. It's important to ensure the best utilization of space, equipment and manpower. It also helps to reduce the cost of production and increase the productivity.

## Objectives

- To study the plant layout of jute yarn manufacturing laboratory.
- To understand the arrangement of machines and equipment.
- To understand the arrangement of raw materials and finished goods.

## Layout

_To be added._

## Specifications

1.  OD automatic batch mixer
2.  Softener machine
3.  Breaker carding machine
4.  Finisher card machine
5.  1st drawing frame
6.  2nd drawing frame
7.  3rd draw frame
8.  Slip draft sliver spinning frame
9.  Apron draft sliver spinning frame

## Limitations

There were several limitations while conducting the experiment. One of them was due to shortage of time we had to split into three groups to study the specification, dimensions and sketch layout separately.

## Conclusion

The planning of plant layout is very important for any manufacturing industry. This experiment gives us a clear idea about the arrangement of machines and equipment in jute yarn manufacturing laboratory.

## Notes

- Cotton is packed into bale, jute into batching.
